- Hear, O Israel.
The Lord our God is one Lord,
and thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart,
and with all thy soul, and with all thy might.
And these words which I command thee this day
shall be in thine heart,
and thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children,
and shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house,
and when thou walkest by the way,
and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up.
And thou shalt bind them for a sign upon thine hand,
and they shall be as frontlets between thine eyes.
And thou shalt write them upon the posts of thy house,
and on thy gates.
I guess that means I'm up.
I was over helping with coffee.
Well, excited to have everybody in service today.
If you don't realize this, you're a little bit new here,
half our church goes to kids 'cause we love kids.
And it's a great thing, and that's one of the things
that I so love about our church
is we have an amazing children's ministry.
And we say this a lot of times.
Our children's ministry is not babysitting.
Our children's ministry loves these kids
like Jesus would love them, teaches them Jesus,
and has great games and all kinds of things
that connect to who Jesus is.
And that's one of my favorite things
about seeing our kids out.
This isn't just for them to just get watched,
this is for them to get invested in.
So as much as you guys are here,
hopefully I'm praying that I get the opportunity
to invest in you as I share,
that they're getting invested into as well.
And so that just excites me as a pastor
to know that we have such a great children's ministry,
children's ministry volunteers.
So today, we are starting a new series
called Practical Evangelism.
And I kinda had this series on my heart
for the last couple of months,
just thinking through this idea
as we are just recently moved into the space of the YMCA,
and inviting people into our church
and what we do as a church and who we are.
And here's the one thing that I realized
as I began to think about this.
Inviting people to church and telling people about Jesus
is nerve-wracking sometimes.
Anybody agree with me that it gets nerve-wracking?
It's a little bit scary sometimes to share your faith
because you're afraid to get challenged.
You're afraid to get pushed back or to be asked a question
you have no clue how to answer.
And so as I'm sitting there thinking about this,
here's the funny part.
I wasn't thinking about you.
I was thinking about me, how even as a pastor,
it's difficult to share my faith, 'cause it's scary.
And I'm afraid even as a pastor,
I'm gonna get asked the question
that maybe I don't know the answer.
And so you may be wondering, oh man,
I thought I came to a church that has a pastor
that knows everything.
I'm letting you in on something.
I don't know everything.
But let me share with you what I do know
and why we need to talk about
how to practically evangelize or to share our faith.
And I started just really thinking through that this week.
God has so changed my life.
I remember my life as I began to envision
my life before Christ, before I came to know who Jesus was.
And my life was pursuing things
in which would never fulfill me.
I pursued trying to get as much money as I could
and get as much position as I could
and to do as much things that made me happy
and it seems like it never fulfilled my life.
And one day, I had a friend in college
that invited me to church.
And so you know, he invited me multiple times.
It wasn't one invite that got me to church,
it was multiple invites and multiple times
of him just showing me who Jesus was through his life.
And one day I finally came to church
and I spent a year in the church
questioning everything that was being taught
before I realized who Jesus was,
that Jesus could transform my life,
that he could save me from my sins,
that he could give me a purpose,
and he could give me a relationship
with a God who loves me now,
and a God who will love me in eternity in heaven.
And that was a beautiful picture
that I finally, over a couple year period,
came to faith in Christ.
So when we think about practical evangelism,
sometimes it's not just this cut and dry,
you say the right things,
and people are gonna give their lives to Jesus,
or you say the right things,
and they're gonna come to church.
Many times it's a long-term strategy
where we're consistently inviting,
we're consistently sharing Christ with people.
But I started thinking about why
do we need to share our faith?
And we'll talk a little bit about that.
But I just wanna ask this question.
Just to kinda get an idea,
'cause I love asking questions to a group.
You may not say about this church,
but in general, if you've ever attended a church,
how many of you attended that church because of an invite?
Raise your hand.
Okay, so let's say half the church
attended a church because of an invite.
So that's at least 50% of people wouldn't be at a church
because unless they got invited.
Now let's think about those of you
that have given your lives to Christ,
how many of you had to have someone
share Christ with you to be saved?
Raise your hand.
There's some people that just read the Bible
and gave their lives to Christ,
but for many of us we needed somebody
to share the gospel with us.
And so I say all that to say is that
we need to remember how important it is to share our faith.
And so that's why we're gonna take the next three weeks,
We'll talk about this and then we'll have one more week
after our Family Sunday.
And I'm excited about our Family Sunday.
In four weeks, we'll have a service where we'll come in,
we'll get to talk about what God's been doing in our church,
have some testimonies, and we're gonna eat some food
and hang out with each other
because we need to spend more time
getting to know one another.
So I'm excited about that in about four weeks.
So anyways, as we talk about today
how to practically share our faith,
we're gonna talk about how to do that
and how important it is to do that
from a place of following Jesus.
As a church, we have a strategy to fulfill our mission.
Our mission is to inspire hope
by helping people discover God's purpose for their life
through a relationship with Jesus.
And I'll describe this a different way.
Our goal as a church is to help one another,
inspire one another, to discover hope in Jesus,
to know who Jesus is and how a relationship with him
can transform and change our lives.
And our strategy to fulfill that is to follow Jesus,
live in community, serve those around us,
and to expand God's kingdom.
So we're gonna use those four pieces
to consistently, over these next couple weeks,
talk about how we can practically share our faith.
And so the first thing that I wanna answer and talk about
is why do we need to share our faith
and invite people to church?
And I kind of asked those couple of questions to you
that kind of point us to this direction of,
and it reminds me of Romans 10.
Romans 10 says this, "But how can they call on him,"
speaking of Jesus, "to save them unless they believe in him?
"And how can they believe in him
"if they have never heard about him?
"And how can they hear about him unless someone tells them?"
So whenever I ask that question of like,
why do we need to share our faith?
It sounds logical, right?
We share our faith because we want others
to experience a relationship with Jesus.
And without us taking that responsibility
to share our faith, no one will hear.
But here's what I wanna share with you,
and I'm gonna kinda dive in a few things,
and then we're gonna use the word of God
to kinda see how Jesus practically shared his faith
and how this woman responded.
But I want us to hear this,
because sometimes we need to hear
and understand what we're saying.
If you've given your life to Jesus,
and you're refusing or you're lacking in sharing your faith,
without knowing it, typically this is what we're saying,
that Jesus is good enough for me,
but he's not good enough for anybody else.
Now we may not say that,
or even really think that of ourselves,
but if we do not share our faith,
and we do not invite people to church,
then we're saying Jesus is good enough for me,
but not for anybody else.
And I would even say this,
there's many people in this room that I know,
I've heard you say, you love Inspiring Hope Church,
you love what we're about.
But when we don't invite people to Inspiring Hope Church,
we're saying, I mean we love what Inspiring Hope Church
is doing, but it's not good enough for those I know
that haven't been invited to Inspiring Hope.
Now, I know that sounds really harsh
because most of us probably don't see it that way.
I would say this, here's another one,
is my comfort is more important than sharing my faith
with somebody because they may ask me a difficult question
and challenge me.
That could be true.
Here's another one a lot of times is,
somebody else will do it.
I mean, you guys know this.
You ever walk by a piece of trash,
maybe you don't do this, maybe I'm a bad person.
You ever walk by a piece of trash
that needs to go in the trash can
and you walk by and you go, somebody else will do it?
I don't do that every time, guys, I promise.
But occasionally I'll walk by that trash
and I'm like, somebody else will do it.
But when we have that mentality,
what if somebody else isn't going to invite
that one person that you have a connection with
at your work or at your school?
What if?
And so again, we're just challenging that question.
Why do we share our faith?
And it's because in the end we share our faith to people
because one, it's what God has called us to do,
but many of us don't like that idea.
So here's the other, it's a natural outflow
of what Jesus has done for us.
And so I'm getting to this point of following Jesus.
What does it mean to follow Jesus?
It means to know Jesus personally
and to consistently spend time with him.
And here's my promise.
If you are following Jesus,
if you have given your life to Jesus,
it is a natural outflow to invite somebody
into a relationship with Jesus
or to invite somebody to church.
It is a natural outflow.
Why?
Because the more and more you know about Jesus,
the more and more you are excited
for other people to know about Jesus.
So, let's answer this question,
and then we're gonna dive in.
I'm trying to set this up.
Next week it's gonna look a little bit different,
'cause I'm trying to set up the series today.
But what is practical evangelism?
I just wanted to look up two words,
practical and evangelism.
Just so you know, in any time that I study for a message,
I'm constantly just looking at words.
So the word practical is a plan or method
that is likely to succeed or be effective
in real circumstances.
So let me just tell you, in my early days
of giving my life to Christ,
many times I was challenged to share my faith,
but not practically.
And it intimidated me, and so I wouldn't share my faith.
So I'm hoping that through this series,
we'll be able to break that down.
Number one, or number two, evangelism is sharing Jesus
and who he is and how others can receive
the good news of salvation.
I was talking to my daughter Peyton about this,
what's the translation of practical evangelism?
And she said simple faith sharing.
Simple faith sharing.
And I loved that response back from her
because I'm like, she gets it.
That it's just some way of simply sharing our faith.
And I do wanna make sure I clarify this.
I had a professor in my comp one in college.
Anybody know what comp one is, English?
I'm not a big fan of English.
So here's what he would say every single time
somebody would ask a question and they didn't understand.
Well, comp one, it's not rocket science.
You guys should get this.
And that made me so mad.
But 'cause for me, comp one was rocket science.
I'm just being honest, it was.
And it made me so mad because he would make me feel dumb.
So my goal today is to not make you feel dumb
if evangelism to you is rocket science.
Because at times it is difficult to understand
how to share our faith.
So please hear my heart today.
I'm not trying to make you feel dumb
if you feel like evangelism is rocket science.
I'm actually here to encourage you to say I've been there
and I'm personally still working through it.
So I'm with you in that.
So let's jump into this.
We're gonna be in John chapter four, John chapter four.
And we're gonna zone in on this story
of Jesus and the Samaritan woman.
And so you understand, I wanna make sure
I can kind of fill everybody in on this.
I typically preach through books of the Bible
and we walk through verse by verse
and we dive into the deep context of it
and I love to do that.
And we're just gonna take a few weeks
to look at practical examples in the Bible
so we will not mill this out to a detail
of deep theology today.
We're really just gonna see what Jesus did
in sharing his faith
and how the woman responded in sharing hers.
So we're just gonna look at the practical side of it.
So if you're wondering, where's the depth
"Can you explain more to this text?"
I may not be doing that today,
and it's not because my heart isn't in that,
but my heart here today is to help us
just look at somebody who lived out their lives
and how they simply shared their faith.
So what I'm gonna do,
and the easiest way to walk through this
is that we're going to just walk through verses
at a chunk.
I'm not gonna read all the verses
because then most of us will get half lost in this.
And so I'm gonna just kinda jump in
and go through this.
So the first thing that we're gonna look at
is verses one through six.
And so this is what it says, John chapter four,
verses one through six says,
"When Jesus learned that the Pharisees had heard,
"he was making and baptizing more disciples than John,
"though Jesus himself was not baptizing,
"but his disciples were,
"he left Judea and went to Galilee,
"and he traveled through Samaria,
"and he came to a town of Samaria called Sychar,
"near the property that Jacob had given his son Joseph.
"And Jacob's well was there,
"and Jesus was worn out from his journey.
"He sat down at the well, and it was about noon."
So I wanna stop right there.
I want you to again look at this as saying,
hey, we're looking at a story of how I can learn
how somebody else practically shared their faith.
I love verse six.
Why does somebody wanna know why I love verse six?
because Jesus was tired.
Anybody tired?
I'm truly asking this, anybody tired?
Yeah, there's a lot of people that wake up every day tired.
'Cause I know, trust me, I have four kids,
I have two different, well technically
I have three different jobs.
I understand busy, I understand tired.
So to me, when I see Jesus says, "Man, I'm tired,"
That comforts me because Jesus knows how I feel
if you are tired, if you're worn out.
Okay, so I think this is so important to understand this.
Something else I want you to see
that we don't see in this text specifically,
but everything that Jesus did,
a lot of times Jesus would do ministry,
he would do ministry, and then he would hear these moments
where Jesus would take some time away with his father.
He would spend time with God.
And then he would come back and he would do ministry
and he would work hard
and he would spend time with his father.
I look at one of these instances right here
as Jesus coming out of time with his father,
and he's exhausted.
So I want you to see that first part there
in that verse six, that he was tired.
So let's read the next three verses.
And it says, "A woman of Samaria came to draw water,
"and Jesus said, 'Give me a drink,'
"because his disciples had gone into town to buy food."
And so her response is, "How is it that you, a Jew,
"ask for a drink from me, a Samaritan woman?"
And she asked him, "For Jews do not associate
"with Samaritans."
And Jesus answered, "If you knew the gift of God,
"and who is saying this to you, give me a drink."
And you would ask him, and he would give you living water.
So what is happening here?
So despite being tired, he still saw an opportunity
to share who he was with her.
That's the first thing I want you to see.
Despite being tired and worn out from his journey,
he still took time to see the one
that needed to experience a relationship with Jesus.
Number two, one of the things that we see here,
and we'll kind of see this in verse nine,
is where he is crossing cultural barriers.
See, Jews and Samaritans didn't like each other.
They didn't like each other at all.
And you guys know in a society that we live in,
there is a lot of racism, there's a lot of hate
across our political lines to just,
you look different, you act different, you talk different.
We don't like you.
There's these issues, and a lot of times
we don't cross those barriers
because of the differences that we have.
Here's what Jesus did.
A Jew, who Jews would not be known to talk to Samaritans,
didn't care.
It was so important that this woman could experience Jesus,
that he crossed cultural boundaries, right?
And so because he crossed these cultural boundaries,
we start seeing her ask questions, right?
And she says this, "How is it that you are a Jew
"asking me for a drink?
"Jews do not associate with Samaritans."
Let me just tell you this, practical evangelism
is doing things people wouldn't expect you to do.
Why?
Because then they ask questions.
I'm telling you, my favorite way to evangelize
is to do something for somebody
where they ask me a question,
why are you doing this?
Why?
And I love Jesus.
Oh man, this is what he says.
He says, if you knew why I did what I did,
you wouldn't be saying give me a drink.
You would be saying give me a drink of living water.
And again, he's kind of setting this up
because he doesn't explain what living water is.
Living water, I'm just gonna spoil this for you.
Living water is a life transformed,
a life that would experience hope and forgiveness
and salvation, something that she would love to have,
but she didn't even know she could have it,
because no Jew would ever cross the cultural boundaries
to even experience or give that to her
to be able to experience.
So she asked this question, and guys, I'm just telling you,
if you wanna know what practical evangelism is,
do things that people wouldn't expect you to do.
Be generous.
Stop and change somebody's tire.
Buy lunch for somebody.
Do what we've been doing for the last three years.
We've been going into schools, writing encouraging cards,
and providing gifts and lunches and meals for teachers.
And here's the question that we keep getting asked, why?
It's just food, it's just gifts,
but to them it means so much.
And here's what we get to say,
because Jesus so transformed our lives.
He loved us so much that we could pour out love to you
through serving and giving.
I love this, right?
We're still building the story up.
And so really he responds with this again.
He knew that she would be interested in living water.
So this would get her thinking, right?
What does this man have that I don't have, right?
So then let's look at verses 11 through 18.
Again, I'm walking through this quickly
'cause we're just looking at the examples.
So he says this, she says this,
"Sir," said the woman, "you don't even have a bucket,
"and the well is deep.
"So where do you get this living water?
"You aren't greater than our father Jacob, are you?
"He gave us the well to drink from, it's himself,
"as did his sons and livestock.
"And Jesus said, everyone who drinks from this water
"will get thirsty again.
"But whoever drinks from the water that I give
"will never be thirsty again.
"In fact, the water that I give him
"will become a well of water springing up in him
"for eternal life.
"And sir, the woman said to him,
"give me the water so that I won't be thirsty
and come here to draw water.
And he said, go call your husband.
And he told her to come back.
And she says, I don't have a husband, she answered.
And he says, you have correctly said,
I don't have a husband, Jesus said.
For you have had five husbands,
and the man you now have is not your husband.
What you have said is true.
So I'm gonna break this down
and see exactly what Jesus did.
And here's, I think there's so many good things in here.
I hope we have time to get to all of them.
So rather than asking for a drink of the living water,
she begins to question his ability to provide it.
I'm just gonna be honest with you.
When you practically share your faith
and you begin to share truth with people
about salvation and who Jesus is,
they're going to challenge the truth.
They're going to challenge whether you can provide
the truth of a life change that experiences
hope and peace this side of heaven
and hope and peace on the other side of heaven.
they're going to question it.
So she begins to go back to what she does know, right?
She begins to explain about the well as Jacob's well
and you can't be greater than Jacob, could you?
Right?
And I just kind of give you an example.
This would be like us offering a better life, right?
Jesus has offered a better life, a better water
than the one that she currently had.
And so she begins to say how could what he had
be better than that, right?
So rejecting the better.
But Jesus explains this in verses 13 and 14,
how the water is greater than what she had.
The water that he had would provide her
to not thirst anymore.
So let me kinda divide this
just so we are all on the same page.
He's not talking about drinking water anymore.
I wanna make sure we're all on the same page here.
He has bypassed drinking water
because he's saying what I have
will allow you to not thirst anymore.
Let's just stop and think about this.
How many of y'all get hungry at least three times a day?
I eat like five times a day.
Because we crave food.
We crave nourishment.
But there's something deeper inside.
Do you guys struggle with craving fulfillment in life?
Craving peace?
Do you crave to be at peace with God,
and peace with the things around you, no matter what's going on?
Do you crave, even though you may be financially struggling,
or your marriage is struggling, or your family is in chaos,
do you crave to have peace?
See, that's what Jesus was saying.
If you receive the living water that I have,
it will provide peace in the midst of chaos.
I just, I promise you this,
whether you have faith in Jesus and whether you don't,
you will have chaos in your life.
But with Jesus comes peace.
With Jesus comes this ability to not be thirsty again
because you have found the fulfillment
of what God's plan of a perfect relationship with him,
this side of heaven.
But apart from Christ, we will continually thirst
and crave and pursue money, pursue position,
pursue pleasure, and it will always end up wanting more.
That's what Jesus was saying.
And when we share the gospel, we're presenting a gospel
that says we can provide something,
we can give communication of something, a Jesus,
that can fulfill you, that can help you,
that can walk alongside you, that can encourage you,
that will never leave you nor forsake you
like some of your friends have, some of your family has.
He will never, I'm telling you guys,
that is something I'm so thankful
that I've experienced this at Heaven.
That when I start thinking about this,
There's so many people around us.
There may be people in this room,
you may be needing this right now.
Why do we need to practically share our faith?
Because man, people need to experience this living water,
and that's what Jesus was sharing.
And so what did she say in verse 15?
Sir, the woman said, give me the water
so I won't get thirsty again.
She's thinking naturally thirsty
because water was important.
She didn't really know what she was asking for.
She didn't know what she was really asking for.
So Jesus begins to go somewhere where some of us are like,
isn't this a little bit touchy, right?
Isn't this a little bit touchy?
So he begins to call out, you know,
hey, have your husband come.
She says, I don't have a husband.
He says, well, you've had five,
and you're not even married right now.
And so it's like, oh man, he's judging me again.
No, Jesus wasn't actually judging.
What he was saying was, everything you've tried
to fulfill your life with is not working.
He wasn't saying, oh, you sinner, you're going to hell.
He wasn't even saying that.
Here's what he was saying.
What you've experienced in life,
you've continued to just thirst after,
and it's not satisfying you.
Do you realize I'm offering you more than water?
I'm offering you peace, a different life
that you don't have to keep pursuing those relationships
that fail you time after time.
That's why Jesus is asking those questions.
Not to condemn her, but to free her.
I want you to understand this.
When we are sharing the gospel,
"You are not there judging your friends.
"You're there freeing them."
I don't know if that helps you at all
when it comes to when you're thinking
about sharing your faith.
Does it help you to understand
that you're not there judging your friends?
You're there seeing your friends
that are heading somewhere, destroying their lives,
not experiencing what God has for them,
God's best for them.
You're helping them.
And I've said this over and over again
in other illustrations in my sermons,
but if you knew somebody was gonna walk in front of a car,
would you stop them?
100% of you, I think, unless you said 99%
because you don't like one of your friends,
but 100% of you said, "I would grab their arm
"and I would say, 'No, there's a car coming.'"
Because that's right.
You don't want them to be destroyed.
When we share the gospel, when we share who Jesus is,
We are grabbing them by the arm and we're saying,
there's a car coming, you're going to get hit.
We're not there laughing and judging them
for them even being stupid enough
to walk in front of the car, 'cause here's the thing,
we were walking in front of the car once too,
and somebody grabbed us and pulled us back.
I'm so thankful for that person.
My friend was Scott, my buddy from college was Scott.
I'll remember him this day and forevermore.
And I go back to Scott and many times I'll text him
or call him and I'll say, "Hey Scott,
"thank you so much for inviting me to church.
"Thank you so much for being a friend with me
"when I probably wasn't a godly person at all.
"Thank you so much for laboring alongside me for two years."
I tell my wife that, she's in the room now
as she goes back to kids.
I thank my wife for laboring with me when I was lost
because it was hard to live with me, okay?
So I think about this instance,
Jesus is really just sharing a better way.
When we think about this,
and I wanna continue to share what sin is,
sin is not God's best for your life.
I say this, if I could offer you,
if Jesus could offer you a better way to live,
to experience God's best for you, would you want it?
Many of us would say, absolutely.
That's what Jesus says when he says,
"Repent of your sins."
Repent of not God's best for you
and accept God's best for you,
which is eternal life, a relationship with Jesus.
That's exactly what Jesus is beginning to share here
with this woman.
So now we go in verses 19 through 26,
and I'm gonna summarize this one a little bit quicker
because he kinda goes deep,
and we don't have time to go deep,
but he really begins to relate with this woman,
and he says this, in verse 19, she says,
"Sir," the woman replied, "I see that you're a prophet.
"Our fathers worshipped on this mountain,
"but you Jews say that the place to worship is Jerusalem.
"And Jesus told her, 'Believe me, woman,
"An hour is coming when you will worship the Father
"neither on this mountain nor on Jerusalem.
"You Samaritans worship what you do not know,
"and we worship what we do know,
"because salvation is from the Jews.
"But an hour is coming and is now here
"when the true worshipers will worship the Father
"in spirit and in truth.
"Yes, the Father wants such people to worship Him.
"God is spirit, and those who worship Him
"must worship in spirit and truth."
And here's what the woman said.
"I know that the Messiah is coming, who is called Christ.
"When he comes, he'll explain all this to me."
I just wanna stop right there, because again,
I'm not diving in to the theology behind this,
'cause you're like, "What is going on here?"
Even she was kinda getting a little bit lost
in what Jesus was saying.
And so here's what she said.
"I know the Messiah is coming to explain all this
"a little bit better and to help me understand this."
And here's what Jesus says.
"I, the one speaking to you, am he."
So again, as we look at this,
this is a deeper spiritual conversation
he's having with this woman,
but at the end, she summarizes this by saying
she knows there's a Savior coming.
She knows she needs something greater.
She recognizes her need for God.
So many people get caught up in that part
where they don't recognize it.
She came to that conclusion in this conversation,
and Jesus finally presents the truth to her.
He is the one she's been waiting on.
He basically shares the good news of who he is.
And so then after she meets Jesus,
this is the beautiful picture, right?
We're gonna skip a couple of verses
because his disciples come back,
they bring him food and he doesn't want the food
because he doesn't need physical food,
he needs spiritual food,
but we're gonna look at verses 28 and 29.
How does she respond after Jesus says,
"I'm the one that you've been looking for?"
She responds with this in verse 28.
Then the woman left her jar, think about this,
Her role was to walk all the way to go get water
and bring it back for their family.
Water was important.
She would go on a long journey to do this.
She left everything she was doing.
She didn't care about natural water anymore.
So she left her jar.
Let me go back 28, sorry.
Left her jar, went into town and told the people,
"Come see a man who told me everything I ever did.
"Could this be the Messiah?"
and they left their town and made their way to him.
So once she heard the gospel, she immediately left.
This is this beautiful picture
that now we're gonna move from Jesus.
So we literally just walked through
how Jesus practically shared who he was.
Now some of you, I wanna be as clear as I can
because some of you do what I do.
We read the Bible, we see Jesus do something,
and we say we'll never be like Jesus.
Anybody do that?
Jesus is the son of God.
We're never gonna meet his standards.
Here's the cool part.
I really want you to see this.
If you have given your life to Jesus,
Jesus lives inside you.
Jesus guides you.
So when you share your faith,
Jesus is helping you share who he is through you.
Like, connect those pieces.
Jesus is with you.
So when we look at Jesus' example,
he practically shared who he was.
In the context, in the setting where he was,
no matter how tired he was, he shared who he was,
and he kept walking through the needs
and conversating with her until she came to the conclusion
that this may be the Messiah.
So now we're gonna just switch and start looking
at how this woman responded, right?
How this woman responded to knowing that the Messiah come.
She left everything she knew,
she went and found people that she knew,
and she told 'em all, could this be the Messiah?
Could this be what we've been looking for?
And how did those people respond?
Here's the cool part in verse 30.
They left town and made their way to him.
Do you think those people that she went and found
was in the middle of their work day,
middle of making dinner, whatever it was,
'cause we don't know the time of the day.
You think they were busy?
We talk about we're busy all the time.
We talk about we're exhausted.
Jesus was exhausted.
They left everything to possibly experience who Jesus was.
I love that.
And so these disciples, again,
were worried about Jesus eating.
This is verses 31 through 33.
But as we jump back into 34,
This is what Jesus tells his disciples.
My food is to do the will of him, speaking of God,
who sent me in to finish his work.
And Jesus told him, don't say there's still four months
and then comes the harvest.
Listen to what I'm telling you.
Open your eyes and look.
The fields, because they are ready for harvest.
The reaper is already receiving his pay
and gathering fruit for eternal life.
So the sower and reaper can rejoice together.
For in this case, the saying is true.
One sows and another reaps.
I sent you to reap but you didn't labor
and the others have labored
and you have benefited from their labor.
Let me just translate quickly
what Jesus is telling his disciples
and so we now bring in this third group.
A group of men that had been following Jesus
were struggling to share their faith as well.
They were struggling to realize
that there was people out there that need Jesus
and Jesus is sitting here saying,
you guys are getting distracted
with your personal relationships with me
and you're not putting a priority on the harvest
which is already out there.
And he's telling his disciples,
"The harvest is plentiful, go."
They're ready, go.
Even Jesus was talking to people
who would claim to be followers of him
and challenging them to go share their faith.
They struggled.
So you know we can all relate with the disciples as well.
So that's just a secondary group.
So now we see how the Samaritans responded
that she shared with in verses 39 through 30.
We're almost done.
So he says this, "Now many Samaritans from the town
"believed in him," speaking of Jesus,
"because of what the woman had said."
I wanna stop right there, how beautiful this is.
Jesus shares with the woman.
She leaves immediately her job, everything she's been doing,
she goes and says, "Come see Jesus."
And many of these people came to faith in Christ
because of her willingness to leave what she was doing
and to go tell others.
I'll just tell you, I've been on the other side
of that before, where I've got the opportunity
to share faith with other people
and seeing other people come to faith in Christ.
And it's glorious, because I don't care
what I was doing before, like it don't matter.
Like it'll take care of itself.
To see people come to faith in Christ,
it's a beautiful thing.
And then he goes on from there and he says,
he told them every, he had told me everything I ever did.
And so when the Sabaritans came to him,
they asked him to stay with them and stayed there two days.
And many more believed because of what he had said.
and they told the woman,
we no longer believe because of what you have said,
since we have hurt ourselves,
and know this is really the Savior of the world.
These people came to hear about Jesus,
and they spent time with Jesus,
and as they spent time with Jesus,
they didn't just depend upon the woman's testimony,
they had their own testimony,
and they gave their lives to Christ.
I think one of the coolest things is we see Jesus
in this very kind of difficult conversation with a woman,
and it was a little bit longer conversation,
but it took the faith of one woman
to go tell a couple of people,
and it transformed their lives.
You never know who you're sharing your faith with
that down the line will touch somebody else's life
that will transform many lives.
You always go back to the statement,
I still don't even remember the guy's name.
Nobody ever knows the guy's name
that led Billy Graham to faith in Christ,
but everybody knows who Billy Graham is.
You never know who you're going to share your faith with,
and it transformed lives after lives
after lives for many years.
And I think back to my friend Scott.
My friend Scott, when he invited me to church
and when he sat with me and labored with me
during my difficulty of not knowing Jesus
and complaining about a lot of things,
he didn't know one day I would come to Hamilton
from Oklahoma and plan a church.
And this is not about me, y'all.
This is about Jesus, because Jesus transforms lives.
Jesus transforms lives.
So what is, we learned today,
and I'm gonna kinda summarize this.
Jesus is our greatest example of how to engage someone
with the gospel.
And even he had to spend time consistently with his father.
See, Jesus was able to share his faith
because of his power from God.
He needed God to even encourage him
and to remind him of his calling.
And this is daily why for us, we need to know Jesus.
If you've given your life to Jesus,
to spend time with Jesus so that Jesus transforms your life
and that you go out and become the light of Christ.
And we even see this, that a woman with a tattered past
can share her faith and be honest about
what she's walked through and lead people
to faith in Christ.
Your background, your past does not define you.
I'm just telling you this again.
Your past does not define you.
Somebody needed to hear that today.
'Cause Jesus didn't judge her.
Jesus shared truth with her and gave her the living water.
I love that picture.
That's what we're called to do as followers of Jesus.
And I love what the woman did.
It wasn't the special words the woman did.
So when you say, I can screw this up,
if I share my faith, I might mess it up.
That woman wasn't worried about it.
She just shared what she knew, and it transforms lives.
It was her simple obedience that transformed lives.
So I would just say this as we close today.
I used to struggle with sharing my faith.
And finally, God got ahold of me to this point,
'Cause I was worried too much about the technique
and less about the message.
And I had to start reflecting,
if Jesus has transformed my life so much, if he has,
and then I had to really reflect, and he has,
then that is enough to convince me
to go share my faith with my friends,
and even those that are not my friends.
And so I wanna give you an example
that today I've gotten better and better
about sharing my faith.
And it's not just because I have to 'cause I'm a pastor,
It's because I truly believe that God has called
every one of us to share our faith.
I went to, everybody's gonna love this,
I went to Flubb's on Friday.
Everybody loves Flubb's.
So we had a volunteer banquet last night
and we bought Flubb's gift cards for all of our volunteers.
And I'm going up there and there's this older couple
that's getting ready to go up to the window
and order some ice cream.
And so I'm kinda standing back.
Well, they decided they weren't ready yet.
And so I step up and say, hey, I need this many gift cards.
And they're like, okay, great.
So we'll get those gift cards ready for you.
And then I step back.
And so there's this moment,
and you guys know you have these moments in your life.
There's this moment where I can pull out my phone
because this is what we do when it's awkward
and there's somebody standing around you.
And I'm just gonna search social media
because that's the comfortable thing.
Or I can put down the phone
and I can engage this couple with the gospel.
And I just said, "Hey, y'all like Flubs?"
It's a stupid question 'cause they're at Flubs.
(audience laughing)
Even I say stupid stuff.
"Yeah, yeah, our daughter works here."
I'm like, "She does?"
"Yeah, and so come to figure out the lady
that we always worked with, worked here for 26 years.
It's great.
Well, that's awesome.
So I started connecting with them,
and they're like, well, what are you doing?
I'm like, well, I'm getting all these gift cards.
Well, what for?
And so I started telling them about our church
and what we do and why we're here.
And I just began to share who we are.
And really what it was, it was the overflow of my life.
That's what I shared, the overflow of my life with Jesus.
And they're like, that is awesome.
And you know what the older lady said
within five minutes of getting to know her?
"Can I give you a hug?"
So I hugged this old lady.
I'm like, okay, let's hug.
"Great, this is great."
Come to figure out, they go to church,
and a church they've been at for like 46 years,
and they're just so thankful
that there's a church in this community
that is investing in this community
and loves on their volunteers,
and meets in the YMCA, and they were just super pumped.
And they bought my ice cream, not the gift cards,
but they bought my ice cream,
'cause I had to get an ice cream 'cause of my flubs.
They bought my ice cream, they said,
"No, we're not letting you pay for your ice cream,
"because we love what you do."
See, I didn't know if they knew Jesus or not,
But I knew for me that I'm in a moment,
and these moments happen, guys,
more often than you know in your life,
that if we'll just realize it,
that we may get the opportunity to transform lives.
And that's one that didn't transform a life.
It got an opportunity to just really encourage one another.
But there's been moments where I've been in a Walmart
and there's one person in the aisle
and I'm just like, I don't wanna talk to them.
But then I just started saying,
"Hey, do you think those peas are any good?"
and they're like, I don't know, I've never tried 'em.
And you start a random conversation
and you get to share your faith,
or you get to say, hey, how can I pray for you?
Right, you start conversations.
I'm just telling you, we can practically evangelize,
not because we feel guilty
and we don't have to use all the sophisticated words.
We just have to genuinely care.
We just have to genuinely care for people.
So my challenge for you today is number one,
if you have given your life to Christ.
We're gonna have a time of invitation tonight.
Here's the point I want.
Invitation is an opportunity to ask God,
okay, I've heard something today.
I've heard the message today.
How should I respond?
So here's my challenge for you.
If you've given your life to Christ,
is to ask God to help you overcome
whatever fear that you have to share in your faith.
Whatever fear you have to inviting people to church,
ask God to remove it,
because that's the number one thing.
you recognize it and then you ask God to remove it.
Number two, when you get done asking God that,
I want you to ask God to put three people
on your mind and heart that you know you do life with
that doesn't go to church, doesn't know Jesus,
maybe it's a family member, maybe it's a friend,
I don't care, somebody, and you begin to pray
that God gives you an opportunity to just start
a conversation about what God's doing in your life.
But here's what I will promise you,
and I'm gonna go back to Jesus.
Jesus spent many times with his Father,
and when he would come out of that time with his Father,
he would go and do ministry.
You will never share your faith
the way that God has called you to share your faith
if you don't spend time with Jesus.
If you don't get into his word,
if you don't come to an Inspire Group
and get involved in community throughout the week,
and I'll talk more about what Inspire Groups are,
but if you don't know Jesus on a consistent basis,
you won't go share your faith.
It's not gonna even be on your mind.
So it starts with a relationship with Jesus.
And so I want those that have a relationship with Jesus
to ask that question during invitation to the Lord
and respond in faith.
But there's a second group of people
that I wanna talk about.
You're in this room and you're sitting here saying,
what the heck are you talking about, right?
You're challenging us to share our faith
and I don't even have a faith.
And I don't know everybody's faith in here.
I haven't had personal spiritual conversations
with every person in this room.
But I know you know.
You and the Lord knows where your heart is
and whether you've given your life to Jesus.
Let me just tell you this, from the words of Jesus,
there is living water that will so transform your life
that if you've never given your life to Jesus,
if you've never said, Lord, I need you,
I repent of my sins, I understand that I'm falling short
in my life, I've not experienced God's best,
I want to experience God's best,
that may be you today, and if it is you today,
you can give your life to Jesus.
It's simple faith.
Did you see this with this woman?
Did this woman pray the right prayer to get saved?
No, she believed.
She believed.
And so today, if you have not given your life to Jesus,
you can repent of your sins and believe in Jesus.
And you can begin to experience God's best for your life.
And it is a process, not in salvation,
salvation's immediately,
it's a process in experiencing Jesus.
And here's my promise to you.
We are a church that exists to inspire hope
by helping you, by helping you.
You, you, you, and all you, and you are helping me
discover a relationship with Jesus.
We do that together, we link arms together.
So I'm here for you.
So if you wanna give your lives to Jesus today,
you can do that through simply just saying,
Lord, I need you, give me new life, and I surrender to you.
So during this time of invitation,
I pray that you do that if you haven't
given your life to Jesus.
And here's the thing, I'm gonna be standing in the back
'cause I love to stand in the back
'cause nobody wants to come in the front.
If you have questions about how to follow Jesus
or you need prayer, please come talk to me.
I want to pray with you, I want to encourage you.
But during this time of invitation, seek the Lord, guys.
There is someone, and I say this way too much
and you guys that have been around this church too long
probably get so annoyed by me,
but I will say this until I'm blue in the face.
There is somebody waiting for you
on the other side of your obedience to share your faith,
to invite them to church.
I was waiting on my friend Scott.
What if he didn't invite me?
Where would I be today?
I'm so thankful for my friend Scott.
But there's somebody that's waiting on you.
Don't leave them waiting.
I'm so thankful Jesus didn't say I'm too tired
and left that woman waiting to hear who Jesus was.
And I'm so thankful that woman didn't get too caught up
in getting water to bring back to her family,
that she ran back to tell people who Jesus was,
because they were waiting on her obedience.
Oh man, I can't wait to be a part of seeing what God does
through this church and taking one simple step
of practically sharing your faith with those around you.
Let's pray.
Lord Jesus, we love you.
God, we are so thankful for you.
We're so thankful for your example in the word today.
Lord, I know that we just skimmed over this message.
But Lord, I look at your example
as a tired and exhausted human experience,
and you still shared your faith.
You shared who you were.
And Lord, you kept showing love to this woman,
and you kept reminding her of her need of the living water.
And once, finally once, Lord, she says that she wants it.
and she leaves all that she has to go tell others about it.
Lord, may we be transformed by their example,
by your example, Jesus, by the woman's example,
Lord, that we will just take the message of the gospel
and Lord, ask you to help us share it with those around us.
Lord, I'm praying for salvations in this room today
for those who haven't given their lives to you.
Lord, I'm praying for salvations in classrooms,
I'm praying for them in workplaces,
I'm praying for them in neighborhoods,
from everybody in this room that's going to go out
and share their faith.
Lord, I'm praying for more people to come back next week
because of invites this week.
Lord, work through us like you've never worked before
as a church and as an individual.
Lord, and remind us what you've done for us.
God, you have sent your son Jesus to this earth
because we needed you.
And God, you did not withhold your son
to meet the need that we had to be saved.
Thank you. May that drive us into this week, into this life ahead, Lord, to help
others experience hope in you. So we pray all this in your heavenly name. Amen.
So take some time to seek the Lord.